A taut wire, her father’s evil empire
Jenna dreams of being physically able to behead herself at the dining room table
Doll I love you but sometimes I need a day off, don’t get that facelift as a result
Don’t you mind, you can take one too, don’t you mind, don’t you mind
Somewhere between her window and my doorstep I remembered what it was to play, to play, to play
Don’t tell me you can’t remember a time before our carnal needs turned us all into employers and employees
“The future is a constant in a world of free will; if we are all pre-destined, the future: variable.”
I wrote it, but I don’t know what it means, don’t know what it means,
But a fat-fingered wife isn’t how I’m gonna end my teens.
Upon upon upon the beauty I take the yoke and do my duty
Do do do do do do my duty do do do do do do my duty
Stopped by the river to fish out a fiver
Slipped off my sandals and I waded in there
Watched as the water licked my toes and my ankles from the back of my neck, to the top of my head, oh!
The day I lost my virginity I made a pot of chicken noodle soup.
Cracked the eggs into a swirling mess, I ate half and I chucked the rest.
The day the doctor gave me pills, I smirked like a kid with chewing gum
As if the plague was a college acceptance, or the memory of a brilliant threesome
A letter came in from St. Germain, my mother washed away by two weeks of rain.
The Singer took away my family
But all I felt were his glowin’ arms around me
During Easter dinner, the dog died and I failed, I failed, I failed, and I couldn’t even lift the spade
Hey yo yo yo yo yo yo, I need an empire to overthrow
You make me wish for a more dangerous life so I can show you ’bout self-sacrifice
Say yes yes yes yes yes yes, say no no no to a natural death
I’d rather give my life to god-as-man than have to line up at the bank again
Oh you you you you you you, if you only knew the lengths I’d go to
You’d pack away all your ballpoint pens, and take a plane back to the Philippines
Drought’s been hard and the cows are all slaughtered but my love for you needs no water
You miss your youth, and you miss the city
But have no regret, have no pity
Smoke blows thick and turns midday to midnight, but my love for you needs no sunlight
Don’t be saddened, just look around love, all things shining! All things shining!
Blue Imelda, she’s the saddest bitch in all of Spectrum
She can’t rely on business to keep herself satisfied
For we are only farmers and the love of a farmer has one hand on the headboard and the other in the soil
Oh Lord, I’m yours forever, I will never take a lover
I’ll keep myself as pious as my body will allow
But I am just a farmer, and the body of the farmer has one eye on the pussy and the other on the plough
I bow, I bend deeply
I’m sheepish and barely able to say it from beginning to the end
Your shirt is torn to ribbons
Woman, can I take you as a friend?
Never was a prize at the bottom of a bottle, though I’ve looked more often than I would admit
Never was a prize at the bottom of a bottle
There is only a bridle and a bit
Andromeda I hold your hand
Spin round and collide with me
Andromeda make us one again
Andromeda I hold your hand, spin round and collide with me, Andromeda make us one again
Twenty minutes in, I am no longer beginning
And I haven’t lost the feeling but I’ve lost the game
’Cause all I really wanted was a head upon my shoulder
For a head upon my shoulder, should’ve had a son
Andromeda I hold your hand
Gonna run this body into the ground
Andromeda make us one again
Twenty years ago, on the back of a night out
We are boys, we are standing, shouting on the hood:
I want everything, I want everything to fail
I want all things to fail at once, all fail at once
Andromeda I hold your hand, run this body into the ground, Andromeda make us one again
Out from the heavens, one of the seven comes to collect me while I am sleeping
Holy enemy, leave me, leave me be
I’d be leaving too much behind me, unfinished and unripened
He is a creature of song, in his voice a model of the kingdom of heaven
But he comes from another world, a world I could not could never believe in
Lead me to the ocean, clasp my hand
Shade me from the sunlight
We lay down in the sand
Oh surrender
I cannot surrender
I can see it but I cannot feel it
I can say it but I won’t believe it
Oh basilisk, oh cockatrice
The prophet was a child of flesh stolen from the family crèche, and hidden in the wilderness
A statue on a steepletop, the prophet’s now a man of rock
And the hundred thousand in his flock will gather underneath of him
Owen and I walk among the plots
I’m guided by the slightest touch
With his fingertips upon my neck, I’m made to be a marionette
He asks me how I’d rather go: to burn with a fire, or freeze in the snow
Well, I’d rather go painful and alone than be a prophet turned to stone
So...
Owen, Owen protect me
From a life everlasting
Owen, Owen protect me from a life everlasting
This kitchen has a king!
This hand, this hand is a cunning little bugger with a habit of turning every A into a B
Unless it’s put to work
There’s a twitch twitch twitch, there’s a rash, there’s an itch
For a job, for a magic job, and a magic diet and exercise plan
There are things I cannot do
I cannot not not turn a skinny little shit into a winsome Brit who spent his youth in honest pleasure
For all my wily ways I cannot not not turn back into the boy
It’s a tearful day when a boy must learn his limitations
Take a look at this brochure:
Inject, inject, strip away, peel away the scars of self abuse with a couple of hours in a private clinic
What have I left in life?
The knife! The knife! This knife! This knife!
Every inch, every inch of me will come to know its magic!
Trussed up like a rabbit, told what I can do and say
It’s mine, it’s mine, nobody can take it away
My life it is a wreckage and my life it is my own
How long, how long before they take the money away
Once you loved a man who put his lover in a crust
Well, could you love a man who’d see it all turn to dust?
Cause I’ll calcify the wreckage and I’ll call the work my own
How long, how long before the features turn to rust?
I don’t wanna hear another song about your ex-wife
I don’t wanna hear you bragging ’bout your Swedish rights
But don’t stop, don’t stop, no, don’t stop, don’t stop,
Don’t stop, don’t stop, don’t stop on my account
Boys run like water from the barrel to the trough
They’ll never stop their running
Gunning for their brothers
This house is a hostel; it is peaceful, but it’s always emptying
Boys all want to be someone
Haven’t you heard? I am a flightless bird
I am a liar, feeding facts to a false fire
If pathos is borne, borne out of bullshit in formal attire
I’ll score you a string ensemble
I saw my son at seventeen, the shutters made projections on his naked frame
Now at twenty-five, he simply cannot stay away from the ketamine
With makeup on his sores
He spends an hour a day composing little eulogies
Sometimes he sends me letters, but it’s mostly garbled phrases and apologies.
But haven’t you heard? I am a flightless bird. I am a liar, feeding facts to a false fire
If pathos is borne, borne out of bullshit in formal attire
Cue the Bulgarian men’s choir
The wella woods of Belvedere
The peat and moss of Avenroe
St. Germain’s canaries
The fortress of Alpentine
Oh, my soul! My loyalty is to the East and Spectral man, and bird, and beast
Red soil for the taking, ruddy women for your brides
All good men of valorous heart
Consider a new start and sail today for the Heartland
Try, try, try to arrange me, but there’s no romance in my blood
Try, try, you’ll never persuade me
My only tears fall with the rain
My father had a dozen wives and a child by every one
I am from, ummmm, about #5, so don’t expect me to stay with anyone
My mother never takes a break from her pining after furniture
Every moment on her feet is torture
And I share her love of wine and cake and taking advantage of amateurs, whee!
Lazy, you lazy poet, your words are reckless, and I can’t feel it
But hey, hey, all the boys I have ever loved have been digital
I’ve been a guest on a screen, or in a book
I move him with my thumbs, I move him with my thumbs
I write his name in nothing, he whispers to the author that I will be the only one
Escape! Escape! This time, for real!
We fool around in the service lane
He’s the only friend I have who doesn’t do cocaine
And all the boys I have ever loved have been confidential
Had a broken home, or a seedy past
So I know, I know it’s gonna last
I move him with my thumbs, I move him with my thumbs
He needs, he needs my guidance, he needs, he needs my time
And I am not the only one
He swam! To the edge! Of the wall! Of the world!
Followed my, followed my voice! And he cried!
Master! The answer is maybe, maybe not!
Maybe not! Maybe not! I have goals!
Gotta fulfill the seven prophecies
Gotta be a friend to grandmother
Gotta rescue Michael from the White Witch
Gotta find and kill my shadow self
Gotta dig up every secret seashell
You may have been made for love but I’m just made
Hey, Dad, I’ve been floating down the river to the place you retired to
Away from the women who despise you
I’ve been sad, ’cause all my friends resent me
But I got a plan for a miracle! I’ll shit it out and put it on the table
Dear Son, should I be a proud one?
I saw what you said on the telly
You made your mother sound so silly
How is my offspring so pretentious?
Your art is lazy, trite and schlocky
I should’ve sent you out for hockey
Sleepy boy, did you forget about your godfather?
For him they put a barrier about the bridge in memoriam.
Your mother never brought herself to use the word ‘jump’
Your father said “Don’t be a bloody twit.”
But am I man enough to honour the dead, or else?
Now I keep a flat-boy on the West Side
I have the first couple of hours to myself to pretend I’m alone
Never bothered with the inconvenience of life-insurance, or a bike helmet, but I watch my back
Honour the dead, or else
Honour the dead and save your applause
All the haunting is inside your head
He pricks you when you smoke in bed
He switches off The Cure and says,
Selfish, selfish sleepy boy
Selfish, selfish sleepy boy
You need someone to get in your way
You need someone to get in your way
I am not afraid, ze said, of the non-believer within me
No delight at the pain of my enemies no tears for any friends I have lost 
You are not alone, I said. It is a trial to keep my belief suspended 
I leave my violin unattended in a cab or a restaurant 
And then when ze started to sing, nobody could’ve called them crazy 
Open chord forever unchanging 
Holy eternal drone
I’ll never have any children, I’d bear them and eat them, my children
I’m gonna change my body in the light and the shadow of suspicion
I am no longer afraid 
The truth doesn’t terrify us, terrify us
My salvation is found in discipline, discipline
I haven’t had a smoke in years but I will catch a drag if you are smoking
They told me to chew on a toothpick 
They told me to take a deep breath
What is better is to punch a wall, to bin the boxes of your old love letters 
To be impassive to the words that could save you, to need to see the world as ash
And I’ll never have any children, I would bear them and confuse them, my children
And I’m not at all afraid of changing but I don’t know what good it would do me
I am no longer afraid, the truth doesn’t terrify us, terrify us 
My salvation is found in discipline, discipline
Nippon! Won’t you take me into your arms and make me into a sargeant, emboldened and enlargened
For some the spell was shafted, but I am in your sway
Yes, I am still enchanted by the ways of yesterday
To the public park, I walk my new wife
In the summer heat, I lose my head
I tell her that the army needs a modus operandi
I tell her where I really went that evening in Chelsea
I tell her I don’t think I’ll last another single night; she says “Yeah, right!”
If I do it with an ice pick, will I come back as a jock?
If I fast until starvation, will I be born again a Christian?
I hear that death by burning means returning as a girl
But only by seppuku can I retain my virtue
But all my efforts have only made an army of greedy gays
Will no one read The Sound of Waves?
Oh, oh, I am afraid
Heave ho! Farewell to the quay! Merry sailors, sailors we
The horizon is our proscenium, our dead will come to know the sea
Our cook is a wanted man, 1000 thalers for each hand
Our captain lost his good sense, driven by a Lazarus’s words
Have you not been told of Lazarus? He felt the icy grip
Brought back by a morphine drip, he told the captain this:
Tragedy! Tragedy! Death has you fooled!
No throne of bone, no terranean pool
No scythe, no cowl, no skeletons
His greatest trophy is this myth!
Every sailor, salmon, every carp
Will follow rivers to the source
Only the dead will know the course
Do you want to know of the afterworld?
Strung out on the highway, the car inverted
What are you but a drum and a tube and a wire, black heart?
A fire in the dark?
I have no statement for your benefit, young man, except this: we all will live again in the eyes of an actor
And the light on the glass
So let me see that ass, hey hey hey!
Sorceress, valkyrie, you let you let yourself believe.
Sorceress, come clean, you let you let yourself believe
There is nothing to lose
There is nothing to lose, there is nothing to lose.
Remember when I told you all about the father-ghost?
He whispers at you when you try to pull
“You’re an imbecile and your limbs carry lumber, your limbs carry lumber.”
The shadow of violence is the shepherd of sense
The shadow of violence is the shepherd of sense, and when I hit the fence
I had a hand on the wheel and a hand on the dial
Man on trial, hey hey hey!
Sorceress, valkyrie, you let you let yourself believe.
Sorceress, come clean, you let you let yourself believe there is nothing to lose
There is nothing to lose, there is nothing to lose
Across the overpass it starts to rain
We leave your father’s house enveloped in flames
Owen where were you to stop the fire?
I know no satisfaction only know desire
My arms are tender from the summer sun
Hallucinating as we try to make each other come
Your silhouette a stuttering of tracers
The rising flame reflects across our faces
The mind is merciful in its ignorance
For if we correlated all its contents
We’d give our bodies over to a fire
That knows no satisfaction only knows desire
Wait for sunlight
Wait for another time
Wait for sunlight
Wait for another life
Sun shine through you
Sun shine over you, over you
Sun shine through you, sun shine over you, over you
The joy of having a baby is a wonderful thing to feel
And the joy of getting married makes you really glad
The joy of correct posture will certainly improve your life
And joy of buying a new house is good for you and your wife
The joy of travelling the world is awesome to behold
And there is a joy to buying cheap goods abroad and saving lots of money
The joy of having diseases cured makes you feel really great
But joy from taking hard drugs will rapidly give way to misery
My body is a cage
This union is a cage about a cage about a cage
And this, and this town too
I’ll see you once in a while but I can’t be seen with you
This place is a narrative mess
The floor a tangle of bedsheets and battered sundress
The ink has dried in the well
The journey once was consequential, now: sequential, sequential, sequential, sequential.
When will you silence your hounds?
The eldest sons to the altar of the Eternal Sound
Their blood is spilled at the dawn
A nation bound to your will, still, the violin plays on
Plays its devotional song
Once it was, once it was so essential, now: sequential, sequential, sequential, sequential
All that she wants is a man with a tan
A mashing pot and matching pan
A minivan
As high an income as she can
Who are you to judge?
Benito was fifteen when he went off to college
I stayed home and tried to go with his best friend
He told me he was gonna cut my neck right across
Then he read Rousseau
Where did he go?
Master comes to me while I’m sleeping
Gives me hell for my overeating
Tells me how I should cut my hair
You think I am only dreaming
But I’ve arms of bronze and bone
I was born into a loving home
And of all the promises that I have made
There’s one I’ll never break
Write his name on your chest in a fever
Sing his song to the boats on the river
Heaven’s number is seventy-one
Our work has only just begun
With our arms of bronze and bone
We will set our shoulders to the stone
We will lift it, we will bear it ’til our bodies, our bodies break
I got a message for the acolytes
I am your man for a wifey fight
I got a thirst for liquid gold
I’ll bludgeon ’til the body’s cold
The stony hiss of cockatrice has cast us into serfdom
I close my eyes, and spur Imelda down the mountainside
For a liberated Spectrum!
I took a No-Face by his beak and broke his jaw, he’ll never speak again
I took No-Face by his beak and broke his jaw, he’ll never speak again
My every move is guided by the bidding of the singer
The night is split by the whistle of my amber whip
And the fire from my fingers
As soon as I got on the horse, I forgot about the math
Forgot about the odds against an adolescent standing up to all of Owen’s wrath
The heat of prairie summer is impossible to take
I grab the hem and lift the fabric over my sweet head
I know what you’re looking for, and I’m never gonna give it to you
I'm never gonna give it to you
Government rule established by a dazzling light show
A hegemony armoured with a thousand-watt head and seven inches of echo
I keep up my velocity, my spurs are in her sides
I don’t know what I’m doing, and it is the only way
Toward the range I’ll ride, singing, I’m never gonna give it to you
“I am overrated,” said the sculptress to the sea
“I’ve been praised for all the ways the marble leaves the man, and I was wrong to try and free him.”
And as for me, I am a vector, I am muscle, I am bone
The sun upon my shoulders and the horse between my legs, this is all I know.
My senses are bedazzled by the parallax of the road
I concentrate to keep contained the overflow
My knuckles grip so tightly, my fingers start to bleed
If what I have is what you need, I’m never gonna give it to you
I'm never gonna give it to you
I, I, I, I will burn burn burn my every book
I, I, I, I will burn burn burn my every book
To warm your cold, cold blood
Goodbye fascist blind man
Goodbye drunken doctor
Goodbye Finnish beauty
Let the people stop and wonder
Anna, Gerald, J. Henry Waugh
Let this longing retire
I will purge my shelf of classics
Watch them fade upon the fire
Hey, Timothy, I wish for clairvoyance
I wanna see my wife and kids, and how I would live, and how I would die
(Son! You should!)
It’s out of fright, it’s self-absorption
I wanna learn from my mistakes before they can scare me away from the drugs
(Son! You should!)
I picture a man who misses his father
He never learned to cook for himself
And spends all his time on his waistline
(Son! You should invest!)
I picture a man who lives in the past
He keeps a book of photographs of his younger self, clairvoyant self!
(Son! You should invest!)
Cross her off the shortlist
My blood is a red-winged bird
The way will be lit by the bridges we burn, oh
And come, tornado!
Carry me away from the croft
Ruffle my hair, bear my body aloft, oh
As the cutlass came down on a Saturday night
Left an un-planted field, left my daughter and wife
Called away into service, for a clerical life
Left an un-planted field, left my daughter and wife
Thought I was a sad boy
Now I know, I know, I know I was wrong
Since you came along, I can see how content I had been
It’ll drive a man crazy to age from the outside in
But I have a plan, it’s a trick with a prick of a pin
And as the cutlass came down on a Saturday night, left an un-planted field, left my daughter and wife
Called away into service, for a clerical life, left an un-planted field, left my daughter and wife
For a man can be bought, and a man can be sold
And the price of a hundred thousand unwatered souls is a bit of meat and a bit of coal
It’s a bit of meat and a bit of coal
It’s a little bit of meat and coal
Lead on, oh horse of mine, we will climb the side of Alpentine
Lead on, oh horse of mine, we will voice our satisfactions
Karma is the concatenation of your actions
Son, son, we’ve got to run away from inheritance
Son, son, I must allow you to learn of sustenance
None of you will ever see a penny of my ill-begotten wealth
Stick around, you will see a rich man cry
I wish, I wish for you a lifetime of labour
Hard days make peaceful nights
The stars collected
Each world accounted for
Freed all the children
Seems there’s nothing more
If I only had a rowboat, I would row it up to heaven
And if heaven would not have me, I would take the other option
I will seek out my own satisfaction
From the wight lying in the barrow to the priest with his broken arrows
There’s a method to the madness
They will feign an expression of sadness
A concatenation of locusts
And the farmers are losing their focus
On the pitch of the Avenroe grasses
I will sing, sing, sing to the masses
Oh Heartland, up yours!
The hollow voice of our 14th century
Too much assumption to be taken seriously
Oh, you wrote me like a Disney kid, in cut-offs and a beater
With a feathered fringe, it doesn’t suit a simoniac breeder
Doesn’t work, doesn’t fly, doesn’t handle
From the wight lying in the barrow
To the priest with his broken arrows
There’s a method to the madness, they will feign an expression of sadness
A concatenation of locusts, and the farmers are losing their focus.
On the pitch of the Avenroe grasses I will sing, sing, sing to the masses
Oh Heartland, up yours!
My homeland, I will not sing your praises here.
Outside these city walls we’ve sixteen thousand squatters
Inside, the queen, the queen has borne us only daughters
You’ll hear it from auditor and lawmaker and jailor
“Oh Spectrum, is anything more beautiful than failure?”
Dig, dig for silver in the name of keeping the order
Silver is nothing more than the displacement of water
It’s a trick of the light on the face of your daughter (and/or your son)
The rising tide of intellect
Your room a holy mess
A copy of The Dispossessed, your room a holy mess
You say you’ll never go home but the truth is you never left it
At the top of the Canyon we look down at what can be created by vote, created by bill, created by vote
You stand in a city that you don’t know anymore
Spending every year bent over from the weight of the year before
You stand in a city that you don’t know anymore
We tried to rule the world but we couldn’t get beyond the front door
I was a kid without a heart, my chest an empty cavity
A hole to be filled with the multitudes around me
So why didn’t you say, why didn’t you say so when you could see?
We gotta call the whole thing off, get out before the drop
We gotta call the whole thing off, get out before the drop
I stood in a city that I don’t know anymore, no I don’t know anymore
I stood in a city but I don’t know anymore, I don’t know anymore
I stand in a city that I don’t know anymore
Spending every year bent over from the weight of the year before
Clap hands for a city that we don’t know anymore
See the sun coming out as we walk the last mile of the lake shore
Ask yourself, are you a slut?
(No you’re not!)
Did you forget how much you are worth?
(It’s a lot!)
Do you remember when we used to do it all for free?
Your head is shouting: Please please please!
Don’t let your cock do all the work!
Where did you bottle up the gentleman, the gentleman?
Give me your hands! Give me your hands!
You are like a shut-in on the prowl
Every day is like your first night off
(Since your bail!)
But we will never write you off
Your head is shouting: Please please please! Don’t let your cock do all the work!
All those around you: Please please please!
What can you do to shut us up?
(But we will never write you off, we will never write you off!)
I’d been living through days
Carrying no burden but the shit of cattle and my resignation
Until the sun rose crimson, crept across my limbs and I saw that they were earthen, that they decay and worsen
And from my ginger chest, there came the sound of thunder
I am not a father
I am not a farmer
I tremble to speak of it
Held her in my arms and pressed her to my heart and pressed my hand o’er her lips
I murmured words of his love
I will be his baron
With him I have an ending
With him I have completion
And the cover of night
Your equations, your essays never hit an illogic mind
Aim for that heart, aim for it, we will leave the logic behind
You’ll travel far, you’ll travel, boy, you’ll see the end of Bahati
You’ll see them fall, you’ll see them pay, you’ll be the end of Yoweri
Co co, co co co
They’re getting soft, they’re getting old, you’ll see the fall of Johnny
Don’t make a story, make a hit, you’ll see the fall of Golding
Cause all that they know’d of cottages, cottages buttoned them down, buttoned them down
Once they got into cottages, cottages buttoned them down
Let them pick up th’attack, th’attack, th’attack, th’attack, th’attack,
We gonna button them down
And all that they know’d of cottages buttoned them down
Out on a bicycle a reflection left behind
The desires of your daughters they will never be defined
Wild pedal wild energized by the stolen vodka and triple-sec
Wheels spurting up the flecks of mud on your blue jeans and your turtleneck
I’m out on a bicycle feeling god is on my side
My mother didn’t believe in discipline or the unconscious mind
Ooh when you finally realize our love is found between the waking and the dreaming
Ooh we fight one another in the afternoon we bathe we bathe each other in the evening
Pick up pick up your tiny arm and put it round put it round the shoulder of your mother
Pick up pick up your tiny arm and put it round put it round the shoulder of your mother
Somewhere between the road and the ever-darkening sky
Oh, the greediness of our hearts will not be satisfied
As it is said by the occupants who rally round the outer steps of parliament
So it is said confidentially by the men and women working in the government
Pick up pick up the bayonet and run it through run it through the stomach of your brother
Pick up pick up the bayonet and run it through run it through the stomach of your brother
Pick up pick up your bloody arm and put it round put it round the shoulder of your lover
Pick up pick up your bloody arm and put it round put it round the shoulder of your lover
At five and six, even as a child you felt the terror of the infinite
Stencilling your diagrams of trilogies and pyramids on the face of the infinite
And sing about a poetess, hyacinth around her feet
That it will never come again is what makes our life so sweet
Do you agree or disagree?
There’s a gap between what a man want and what a man will receive
The sun has set on me
There’s a gap between what a man want and what a man will receive
You saved the game
And Escobar came from the grave
To warn you with a bloody hand to never try to make the band
Said like a blister undersole, the body will heal any hole
The body gradually transform and lose its features one by one
Until it is as beautiful as the wind before the storm
Do you agree or disagree? There’s a gap between what a man want and what a man will receive
The sun has set on me, there’s a gap between what a man want and what a man will receive
The sticks smash on the flatbed
Boys tour the town victorious in war
The sticks smash on the flatbed, boys on the ball
Got a daughter who’ll eat anything
They like to feed her words, words, words
Tell her, watch for the plague, girl, check your stool 
Or we’ll send you to reformatory school where they’ll make a man out of you
And they’ll press what is left into new
They’ll press what is left into new
They’ll press what’s left into new
Out of dust, out of empty space
From the bedroom to the marketplace
You be bold, but not too bold, and frame it all in gold, in gold
Your credibility is broken in two, but we’ll press what is left into new
We’ll press what is left into new
We’ll press what’s left into new
Let’s sing a song about a woman's rage
Sing a song about an empty stage
A song, a song about how to sing
A song song song about everything!
Cause you’re tough, for a girl, and you’re smart, for a girl
Stop, stop your ears from burning, fill my stomach with your singing
Concern concern concern yourself with the invisible!
Concern concern concern yourself with the incredible!
Don’t turn to motherhood so fast, you have been blinded
There’s a word for all you keep inside and though you try to hide it, we will write it!
Fascinated with the underclass
She broke down and decided to act
For every new baby: Investment! Investment!
And for every whore: Relief!
No matter a drunkard, a swineherd, a Spaniard
We’re all treated equally
Canada! Canada-dee-doo-dee-dah!
Let her keep a memento
She has not been able to sleep since the days of Trudeau
On music! On painting!
Distract us with drawing and don’t let the audience die!
Watch Alice get better and Peggy get stronger, they’ll still publish once in a while
She drives a little white car to the seminar on Modern Romance
Possible possible ideas for a date include...a shooting range
And her chest is full to bursting with thoughts of an evening
Nobody nobody nobody will ever know her longing
She’s got a heart that will never melt
She’s got a heart that will never never melt
Shields up! Shields up! Bar the door, and keep your dukes up!
Tell lies, tell dirty lies, tell diggory lies, until you’re lying in his bed
He has a tendency, a tendency to fall for shining eyes and baby fat
But the quarry don’t share his taste for Anne McCaffrey
And he dresses alright but the conversation is wrong, all wrong
Nobody nobody nobody will ever know his longing
He’s got a heart that will never melt
He’s got a heart that will never never melt
Shields up! Shields up! Bar the door, and keep your dukes up!
Tell lies, tell diggory lies, tell chiggery lies, until you’re lying in his bed
Now you can endure the fear
Now you can endure the hell
Now you can endure the lies
Now you can endure the fear
Your rock and roll has gone away
You will say that I’m a bigot, no sir, no sir
I have lots of swishy friends around, I do, I do-dah-do
But a bunch of those together can only do the Devil’s work, and it’s the Devil’s work they do
Finding beauty in ugly things is alright, to a point
But have you seen that cross-breed of the highbrow and the low?
It’s a note tied to a brick that reads: “Freedom, foul freedom! We are free to foul whatever, and we will.”
Why can’t you people see? Theirs is a life of mimicry
They are fathers without sons or daughters
They are bathers at the mouth of a literary delta
It isn’t poetry, it’s an orchestration, orchestration of our own demise
And you’ll call me a bigot, or a dog in the manger
But I’ve seen them in the commons with their kerchiefs and tattoos
And a bunch of those together can only do the Devil’s work, and it’s the Devil’s work they do
Doomsday, the end of the century
In accord with prophecy
Is all your fear, your fire, your family written within The Book of Butchery?
My appetite is endless
The people defenseless
This land is big, this land is bigger but never as big as the mouth of the singer-o
Every morning I listen to confessional
I don’t give a shit ’bout the bulk of it, still I keep it professional
And as penance I tell ’em to proselytize
Say the sun is red, say that I am red, say
All their bases belong to us
And of doomsday, the end of the century
In accord with prophecy
Put all your fear, your fire, your family into the mouth of Final Fantasy
And the bishops will kneel at their altars and sing
Remove their coils, their rings, their jewels
Lay them all down in sacrifice
What of things? What things? What is this thing?
I’ve a temper as shiny as any bling!
And all this attention will gain you no favour in Paradise.
And of doomsday, the end of the century
In accord with prophecy
Go all your fear, your fire, your family
Into the mouth of Final Fantasy
The crack, where is the crack?
When did I crack?
Then I’ll stand alone on a planet with nothing left to remember it
And I’ll try, I’ll try, I’ll try to prevent it
I’ll try, I’ll try, but I’ll never stop it, no
Muzzle me, muzzle muzzle me
Bind my will and break of me
And you try, you try, you try to prevent it
You’ll try, you’ll try, but you’ll never stop it, no
I had to hide myself in a book to keep your love away
The pages worn with all of my faults, the cover torn away
I gave my life to the Water God for an apprenticeship
Answering his mail and his door, for nyads, hyppogryphs
After Midwinter Banquet, he shook his head, "Sadly, no,"
"I can reverse the river’s flow, but I can never send you home."
I had to hide myself in a book to keep your love away
When you read me, I get to look back at my younger days
We the dead, we the dead, find a country road
Country road, lead the dead from our homes to the ground
Make a book of the maggots our bodies will snare
Cause the earth is the earth, no need to travel in the air
The CN Tower is built upon our bones!
The CN Tower will always be our home!
Decorate ’round the base all the graves of our lost loves with cabbages, ginger root, and a crucifix
Never rode on the plains, never thought I couldn’t stay
Had a good run anyway, had a good run anyway
I could fill up the lake with all the things I didn’t say
Had a good run anyway, had a good run anyway
From the top of the tower, radio buzz in our ears
We can see your house from here, we can see your house from here
Talking, what’s it good for? Absolutely nothing
Wrestle, let’s wrestle, you can pin me to anything
Thought I saw you in my tea leaves
Thought I saw you in a forest flame
I’ll fill up the silence with the sound of your holy name
Knowledge of the sea-ways, knowledge of how the water flows
Whoever coined the phrase has never had to brave the snow
I climbed the shroud to the top-sail and I peeked through the glass
The curvature bisected by a wintry mizzen mast
The scar upon my stomach, I call it my Flying V
And every time I show it, I can feel your eyes on me
How many islands will surrender to the blunderbuss?
And how long must we sail before you show your face to us?
Followed him out to the end of the pier
“Don’t come any closer,” he cried 
“I am afraid of the man I’ll become if I lay my life down for a people who I don’t even care for.”
Face to his face, I put my hand into his and I tried to tell him, "No,"
I’ve seen his work upon the panes of cathedrals, in the sweat of the workers and the flight of the seagulls
My words were drowned out by the sound of the motors and rowers, the ship as it ran aground
And from the trees came a thousand soldiers
I went down on my knees with a spear in my shoulder
About face, about face, I swam back to the Victoria 
I shiver with the memory, memory of the island dwellers and the indifferences of the Storyteller
What of a war? There was a war?
Didn’t it threaten to bewetten us in our beds?
Brother, if it did--and it did--we should pat our backs for selling all our papers
And paperless, we killed the storm by standing underneath an eavestrough
My heart is full, my heart is still
And it would take more than a foggy mind to drown it.
Ummmm, errrrr....
Oh memory, all ears and eyes
Preserving, pruning, preening every leaf of every lie
It’s not your fault, it’s not my fault, if every fault should find its way into our suppers
Ummmmm, errrrr.... luminum, aluminum, aluminimium, luminumaluminimium!
Then there’s your face! It’s brown and bold!
See? How a miner can forget about his veins of gold?
And how the ground smiles so hungrily at our bones?
We talked about the drugs and we decided to abstain but still 
We locked ourselves inside and then my fingers locked behind your head
You hooked your pinkies on my jeans, I’m twenty-eight and you’re nineteen
Compassion, compassion
The innocent fun soon-to-be will start to feel like currency
As we try to get it on in bed
You’ve given me your home and head
You put on The Queen Is Dead but I just want to talk instead
Compassion, compassion
Oh! Your eyes, your greedy eyes!
Your dry and desperate tongue
You’ve told a lie! A lie! A lie!
For every pretty note your reedy voice has sung
Do we believe in devils? No.
Winged men? The healing pow’r of love? No.
Enchantment? Social justice? No.
Dead child actors in a white, white world above? No.
Why are all these songs about the things that don’t exist?
Do not resist! We’ll burn these lies tonight and never let them live
Oh, stoke the fire, we’ll burn these words tonight and never let them live
The Pooka wings away
His power o’er me’s at an end
And I put down my violin, I leave it down, never again!
Heart, heart in your mouth, hand on the paper with the new work that you’ve found
The gift of your depression bears you down, down, down
And when you wake for the sixth straight day with the tanqueray
You will rise, rise again, and drink again
Hurtle hurtle into the breach, let your body fall out of reach
On the day that you find your 30s have left you childless
Remember when you meet your coupled friends with unease
The world will forget all the good they have done, and the world’ll forget any good you have done
Hurtle hurtle into the breach
Let your body fall out of reach
Out of thought, out of house, out of your mind
Lay your head, lay your heart next to mine
And try to admit that you might have it wrong
Try to admit that you might have it wrong
Thunderhead, oh thunderhead
I will be your riverbed
I waded out too far, lost sight of the shore
Sunk beneath the surface, I closed my eyes
The undertow would take me out
The waves take me home
I went limp and I let the sea decide
Gentle listener, THIS IS WHY I SING: Confusion!
(Sweet confusion, you’ll be my only child)
Moon it rises to break across the river and a moon-faced boy
Would you write a speaking part for me, a part that puts me somewhere between the elevated road and the water?
It don’t get better, the hunger, even back in his arms
No the water will get higher as fast as you run
Charity think no evil and charity never faileth
Let me feed you with a song
I’m out on the street with an open case and a mandolin and with every coin I am born again
Faith will return to you my friend
Some days I feel like the end of mankind and some days the beginning
Watching kids turn into lovers/believers
And it don’t get better
The hunger, even back in his arms
No the water will get higher the faster you run
Sun it rises to shine upon the wreckage of our broken bloody union
Does it fill your gaps like it fills in mine?
The sunlight creeping cross the line to rest upon the site of our ruin
And if your mother doesn’t answer then give me a call, here’s my number: 854-4784
The only girl I ever fell in love with taught me how to drink as if it needed to be taught
I’d always give that girl another shot
We drank away the difficult times
A sheet of noise to wash away our grievance
And I left in the fading light at the end of the season
She said I was the guy behind the counter who would offer to give you comfort when there was none
I said I was the sky behind the flag
Don’t need a miracle, we need to lose control
Men only need to lose control
The drive goes on as our conversation turns to something something on the radio then to the drone
The engine is our anniversary song
And I think as I look over: lucky you
Lucky me and lucky lucky you
We will be together in our strangeness and safety
Don’t need a miracle
We need to lose control
Owen why must you always be first to wake and first to fight, first to wound and first to fly?
I need to lose control, why can’t I lose control?
First to wake and first to fight
First to wound and first to fly
Crown myself the Prince of Buzz!
Can’t wait until you unsubscribe
I’ll be a lonely scribe
But what if they like it and lock us in a cannery with your accordion until we can our love?
We can get along!
We can get along!
Montreal might eat its young but Montreal won’t break us down
Montreal might eat its young but Montreal won’t break us down
Now I got a VCR
If we put our hopes in 20,000 tiny jars they’d never leave their homes
I tried and tried and tried and tried and tried and tried to keep the crowds away!
No hope for the village, no hope for the village
A merchant’s in our midst and with a barrel fist
He’s coloured every surface, he’s slapped up a portrait and yes, it is his own! He’s gonna take your home!
Have you seen our visitor? Look! Over the treetops! Newly conjured erections are making him a killing
And Richmond St. is illing, so the graduates are willing
To buy in to the pillage, now there’s no hope for the village
Prisoners, be silent, be silent and be sharp
When he was a young man, he conjured up a firemare
Burnt off both his eyebrows and half a head of hair
And then as an apprentice, he took a drowish mistress
Who bestowed upon his youthfulness a sense of champagne chic
His seduction, his seduction to the world of construction
Now his mind will start to wander when he’s not at his computer
And his massive genitals refuse to cooperate
No amount of therapy can hope to save his marriage
Prisoners, be silent, be silent and be sharp
Can you hear them talking? Listen through the wall:
Nothing to do, nothing to do
Living rent-free is boring me
Got no use for my PE Degree
Got no use for my pedigree
I feed you every morning and ask so little
And agnès b
But you belittle all the work, all the work that I do
When you take that walk without permission
I’m not content
I’m not defensive, I’m just saying this cause I love you
You know I hate it when your friends are in the pool
Contentment? What's contentment? I am bald and impotent
Is that what it’s about? Oh honey, honey, shut your mouth
Took you two years to win my heart and two words to break it
The love you ignited, you firefighted
And roared bellowing into the rainy night
They say heartbreak is good for the skin but all that it’s helped is my drinking
Picking fights with myself and my friends, and my friends threatening to do me in
Took you two years to win my heart
And two words to break it
More surprising than two years of lying is how people let you get away with it
Those Saturday sleep-ins with no distractions
Summer sun and songbirds
Once kept afloat on a Venetian boat now blotted out by those two words
Mighty Leon, wind the tape, and be sure of one thing
Every song from a heart this mangled will be draped in strings, strings, strings
I stumbled on the summit’s path
Clumsy, clumsy
No paragon am I
I can’t even keep my shoes tied
I’ve been in love with Owen ever since I heard the strains of Psalm 21
Standing between the choirs, As they sang, “Laudate Dominum, Laudate Dominum”
Damn, I wrote it down, but I left it in the pocket of my other jeans
Scrawled across the foolscap: "I don’t know what your devotion means,"
I don’t know what your devotion means
And up, upon the summit I can see the one I worshipped as a boy.
The Creator, The Great White Noise
The Great White Noise
Charged and charging up the ridge
The chests are empty, the coffers too
They float in the flood, and so will you, I swear, so will you
“Your light is spent! Your light is spent!” I cried, as I drove the iron spike into Owen’s eyes
The sun sped cross the plains like that cinematic moment where humanity and nature collide
When you think, “Everything’s gonna be all right,” just before the hero gets a bullet in his side
Whizzing off the clifftop
Listening for the spatter, thirty floors below
Down come the vultures
I will not be your fuel anymore
Now the author has been silenced, how will they ever decipher me?
I hope they hear these words and are convinced you never even knew me
I draw a bruise on your brawny shoulder
Scratch my fingers over your tattoos
The author has been removed
Your man is calling from up above!
He says you’ll never find someone to love
And if you let the hierarchy tax your sex
What do you think will happen next?
It’s a road, it’s a road, it’s for the roads
It’s a rat, it’s a rat, it’s for the rats
Ooh and how much can you smoke?
Ooh when they tax your cigarettes?
Ooh and how will you get laid?
Ooh when you’re limp, when your limpness gets your Masters paid?
Put your lips to my ear, turn your scream to a shout: YES I CAN!
It’s gonna be a bright, bright sunshiney day!
The difficulties of my story:
Despite discomforts, despite myself, I
I reaffirm my endless devotion
To the belief that we’re all of value,
We’re all of virtue, and so inclined we
Fill up our cups and toast to each other
And though I listen to the arguments that most divergent systems employ to debilitate us, delineate us
Repackage our words, demystify us
I unceasingly affirm my love can
Cannot be measured, cannot be altered
I know, I know it, I do affirm it with overzealous obscurantism
With every word and with every gesture, I must express it 
I can’t define it, but all the same I know I can describe it:
This morning I must get up to see the world around me right away
What I forgot in seeing ourselves as words upon a paper
I walk o’er bridges and see the river
A marble statue the sun has weather’d
The stubbornness of the overgrowth and the old memorials covered in snow 
We’ve written the way the universe will go
A righteous white horse, a man with a bow
A sharpened bit of the mistletoe
Scissors of fate or the fire of Surtr
Though we’re divided, the force of nature will put us all in the ground together
The sun is up. My arms are wide. I am a good man, I am yours